Senior Data Engineer

Overview
Cloud Operations + Innovation (CO+I) is the team behind one of the World’s largest Cloud Infrastructures, responsible for powering all Microsoft online Products and Services as well as powering Microsoft’s “Cloud First” mission. Our focus is on smart growth, high efficiency, and delivering trusted experience to customers and partners worldwide, and we are looking for passionate Senior Data Engineer to help achieve that mission.   
If you want to have a fundamental impact on how Microsoft’s Cloud is deployed and operated globally, be involved with one of the most strategically important teams at Microsoft, and have technical and business acumen, leadership, creativity, and out-of-the-box thinking are some of the skills you bring to the table - this job is for you!   
We are looking for an exceptional Senior Data Engineer to collaborate with our data science and scheduling Program Manager (PM) team to build solutions that improve our Data Center delivery time. As a Senior Data Engineer you will partner with various teams to develop business requirements to standardize the business input and develop a long-term vision and partnering cross-functionally. 
Senior Data Engineer  of the CO+I Delivery team is responsible for leading the team of Data Engineers who build and maintain the data pipelines that enable and accelerate Data Science and Machine Learning at Microsoft, including tooling for training, testing, serving, and monitoring models. CO+I continues to invest heavily in business intelligence and data science, and you have the opportunity to lay the foundation for work we do in these areas.
In alignment with our Microsoft values, we are committed to cultivating an inclusive work environment for all employees to positively impact our culture every day.
Microsoft’s mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond. 
This role is located in one of the following hub locations : Atlanta, GA, Redmond, WA, San Antonio, TX, Washington, DC or Phoenix, AZ. 
Relocation support will be provided, and successful candidates are required to ​relocate or reside within 50 miles of the hub office location. 
This role is eligible for hybrid or remote work, up to 50%. 

Responsibilities
Designing and implementing data solutions that drive business impact. Turning data chaos into scalable, efficient, and automated solutions.
Adept at leading cross-functional teams, defining data strategies, and leveraging the latest technologies in data handling and data analytics.
Build, Develop, Grow and Lead a team of data engineers. Translate business requirements into data models that are easy to understand and used by different subject areas.
Design, implement and build data models and pipelines that deliver data with measurable quality under the Service Level Agreement (SLA).
Partner with product teams, data analysts and engineering teams to build foundational data sets that are trusted, well understood, and aligned with business strategy.
Improve existing systems, including what areas have gaps that need to be filled, and have started working with the team and stakeholders to scope and prioritize solutions.
Establish rigorous engineering processes to ensure service quality, delivery of new capabilities, and continuously improving metrics.
Foster and develop talented engineers capable of developing and running scalable, reliable, maintainable services.
Work closely with Research and Data Science to influence how optimization and modeling improve our decisions.

Qualifications
Required/Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 4+ years experience in business analytics, data science, software development, data modeling or data engineering work
OR Master's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 3+ year(s) experience in business analytics, data science, software development, or data engineering work
OR equivalent experience.
3+ years technical engineering experience with coding languages
3+ years experience in Python and SQL

Other Requirements: 
Ability to meet Microsoft, customer and/or government security screening requirements are required for this role. These requirements include, but are not limited to the following specialized security screenings:
Microsoft Cloud Background Check: This position will be required to pass the Microsoft Cloud background check upon hire/transfer and every two years thereafter.

Additional or Preferred Qualifications
8+ years of software engineering experience including building large-scale data applications.
Experience creating high-quality data pipelines.
Experience bringing people together across teams to successfully collaborate on innovative solutions.
Experience creating an inclusive and fun work environment where every employee engages effectively.
Experience growing people and teams through modeling, coaching, and demonstrating care.
Experience in pioneering, scaling, and optimizing data pipelines, data storage, large-scale data processing/analytics platform, dashboards.


Senior Data Engineer - Gaming

Overview
Xbox Game Studios makes some of the best AAA games on the planet and the opportunities for a motivated Senior Data Engineer are endless.  We are an agile team within Xbox Games Studios Quality tackling a wide range of problems throughout the game development process.  As a Senior Data Engineer in Xbox Games Studios Quality, you will be working with major franchises that include Halo, Forza, Gears of War and Microsoft Casual Suite. You will be working alongside Data Scientist, Applied Scientist, Software and Quality Engineers to find innovative ways to incorporate data solutions into the game development pipeline for major game studios. This position includes flexible work from home options.

Responsibilities
You will develop and maintain data pipelines, including solutions for data collection, management, transformation, and usage, ensuring accurate data ingestion and readiness for downstream analysis, visualization, and AI model training.
You will design and implement end-to-end software life cycles, encompassing design, development, CI/CD, service reliability, recoverability, and participation in agile development practices, including on-call rotation.
You will write code to implement performance monitoring protocols across data pipelines, building visualizations and aggregations to monitor pipeline health. You’ll also implement solutions and self-healing processes that minimize points of failure across multiple product features.
You will anticipate data governance needs, designing data modeling and handling procedures to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and policies.
You will implemnent and enforce security and access control measures to protect sensitive resources and data.
You will Perform database administration tasks, including maintenance, and performance monitoring.
You will collaborate with Product Managers, Data and Applied Scientists, Software and Quality Engineers, and other stakeholders to understand data requirements and deliver phased solutions that meet test and quality programs data needs, and support AI model training and inference.

Qualifications
Required/Minimum Qualifications 
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 4+ years experience in business analytics, data science, software development, data modeling or data engineering work
OR Master's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 3+ years experience in business analytics, data science, software development, or data engineering work
OR equivalent experience.
4+ years of experience in software or data engineering, with proven proficiency in C# and one scripting language for data retrieval and manipulation (e.g., SQL or KQL).
4+ years of experience with ETL and data cloud computing technologies, including Azure Data Lake, Azure Data Factory, Azure Synapse, Azure Logic Apps, Azure Functions, Azure Data Explorer, and Power BI or equivalent platforms.
3+ years of experience in MLOps, covering the entire machine learning lifecycle: data ingestion, preprocessing, model training, validation, deployment, and monitoring.

Additional or Preferred Qualifications 
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 8+ years experience in business analytics, data science, software development, data modeling or data engineering work
OR Master's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 6+ years of business analytics, data science, software development, data modeling or data engineering work experience
OR equivalent experience.
2+ years of demonstrated experience implementing data governance practices, including data access, security and privacy controls and monitoring to comply with regulatory standards.
Experience building APIs and services using REST

Data Engineer

Overview
Cloud Operations + Innovation (CO+I) is the team behind one of the World’s largest Cloud Infrastructures, responsible for powering all Microsoft online Products and Services as well as powering Microsoft’s “Cloud First” mission. Our focus is on smart growth, high efficiency, and deliver trusted experience to customers and partners worldwide, and we are looking for a passionate Data Engineer to help achieve that mission.    
If you want to have a fundamental impact on how Microsoft’s Cloud is deployed and operated globally, be involved with one of the most strategically important teams at Microsoft, and have sound technical and business acumen, and leadership, creativity, and out-of-the-box thinking are some of the skills you bring to the table - this job is for you!    

Responsibilities
As a Data Engineer, you will partner with various teams to develop business requirements to standardize the business input and develop a long-term vision. CO+I continue to invest heavily in business intelligence and data science, and you have the opportunity to lay the foundation for the work we do in these areas. 
Designing and implementing data solutions that drive business impact. Turning data chaos into scalable, efficient, and automated solutions. 
Design, implement and build data models and pipelines that deliver data with measurable quality under the service level agreement. 
Partner with product teams, data analysts and engineering teams to build foundational data sets that are trusted, well understood, and aligned with business strategy. Work with the team and stakeholders to scope and prioritize solutions. 
Follow rigorous engineering processes to ensure service quality, delivery of new capabilities, and continuously improving metrics. 
Understand Microsoft security and privacy guidelines and bring the system in compliance. 
Understand Big Data strategy and implement a scalable data platform. 

Qualifications
Required Qualifications: 
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 2+ years experience in business analytics, data science, software development, data modeling or data engineering work
OR Master's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 1+ year(s) experience in business analytics, data science, software development, or data engineering work
OR equivalent experience.
2+ years of experience building highly scalable applications, specifically with coding languages such as Python and SQL (Structured Query Language).
 
Other Requirements: 
Ability to meet Microsoft, customer and/or government security screening requirements are required for this role. These requirements include but are not limited to the following specialized security screenings: Microsoft Cloud Background Check: This position will be required to pass the Microsoft Cloud background check upon hire/transfer and every two years thereafter.

Preferred Qualifications: 
3+ years of software engineering experience including building a large-scale data platform. 
3+ years of experience building highly scalable applications. 
Experience creating high-quality data pipelines. 
Proven experience in version control and CI/CD (Continuous integration and continuous delivery) tools.
Extensive experience in pioneering, scaling, and optimizing data pipelines, data storage, large-scale data processing/analytics platform, dashboards 

